NitroShare - A Tool for Sharing Files over a Local Network
Copyright 2012 - Nathan Osman

INTRODUCTION

Have you ever sat down in front of your computer and realized that you need a
file that's stored on another machine on your local network? You immediately
begin thinking of ways to transfer the file. If both machines are using the same
operating system, you might be able to simply mount the drive on the remote
machine containing the file. If not, you might have to resort to using a flash
drive or a commercial syncing service like DropBox. If things really get out of
hand, you might even find yourself setting up an FTP server. It seems like there
should be an easier way to just transfer a file.

There is. NitroShare.

This tool takes the hassle out of transferring files from one machine to another
over your local network. Simply drag the file on to the Share Box and pick which
machine you want to send it to. That's it. It doesn't matter if the other
machine is running Windows, Mac, or Linux. NitroShare just works.

FEATURES

- Automatic discovery of other machines on the local network.
- Ability to send one or many files across the network.
- Support for compressing the files and performing CRC checks upon arrival.
- Compiles and runs on all platforms supported by Qt (Windows, Mac, Linux)
- Integrates with the host OS, using application indicators on Ubuntu and the
  system tray on Windows, for example.
- A large number of settings that you can tweak for maximum performance.
- A configuration wizard that guides you through the process of setting up the
  application.
- Completely open source (released under the GPLv3).

COMPILING

Because NitroShare is written in C++ and uses the cross-platform Qt framework,
you can build the program on a number of different platforms. Before building,
you need to make sure you have the following tools and libraries installed:

- Qt SDK (4.7 or later)
- QJson
- qxmlrpc
- Bazaar (for fetching the latest NitroShare source code)

The basic build instructions are as follows:

1. Create a folder and grab the latest source code for NitroShare from
   Launchpad:

   mkdir nitroshare
   cd nitroshare
   bzr pull lp:nitroshare

2. Build the project.

   qmake
   make

NAUTILUS INTEGRATION

NitroShare ships with a small Python script that adds a menu item to Nautilus'
right-click menu, making it easy to send files from within Nautilus windows. You
can install this extension by simply copying 'nautilus/nitroshare.py' to
'~/.local/share/nautilus-python/extensions'. You will need to restart Nautilus
before the menu item will show up.
